ldapsearch: add page (#2915)
tldr-pages/tldr: pages/linux/ldapsearch.md

# ldapsearch

> CLI utility for querying an LDAP directory.

> - Query LDAP for all items that match filter "{{memberOf}}={{group1}}" and return {{displayName}}:

Reviewer: Perhaps this would read better?

```suggestion
- Query an LDAP server for all items that are a member of the given group and return the display name:
```

Author: Would "return the object's `display name` value", fit? I feel like the user should be nudged to not think of object values as universal.

Reviewer: Sounds good to me!

Author: After much incremental editing, I think I have this sorted.

`ldapsearch -D '{{admin_DN}}' -w '{{password}}' -h {{ldap_host}} -b {{base_ou}} '{{memberOf}}={{group1}}' {{displayName}}`

> - Query LDAP with a no-newline password file and return {{displayName}}:

Reviewer: Perhaps this will read better?
```suggestion
- Query an LDAP server with a no-newline password file and return the display name:
```

Author: Placeholder.

Changes here will take a cue from line 5's changes.

Author: Line now reads "Query an LDAP server with a no-newline password file for all items that are a member of the given group and return the object's {{displayName}} value:"

I'd be happy for a suggestion on phrasing, but tripped over the newline issue myself during testing.

`ldapsearch -D '{{admin_DN}}' -y '{{password_file}}' -h {{ldap_host}} -b {{base_ou}} '{{memberOf}}={{group1}}' {{displayName}}`

> - Query LDAP for up-to 5 items that match filter "{{memberOf}}={{group1}}" and return {{displayName}}:

Reviewer: Perhaps this will read better?
```suggestion
- Return the first 5 items that match the given filter:
```

Author: @sbrl my read of LDAP docs suggests that results aren't sorted by default, I committed your change but I'm worried that this could be misleading.

Reviewer: I see. What about this then?
```suggestion
- Return 5 items that match the given filter:
```

Author: LGTM, thank you!

`ldapsearch -D '{{admin_DN}}' -w '{{password}}' -h {{ldap_host}} -b {{base_ou}} '{{memberOf}}={{group1}}' -z 5 {{displayName}}`

> - Query LDAP for up-to 7 seconds for all items that match filter "{{memberOf}}={{group1}}" and return {{displayName}}:

Reviewer: Perhaps this will read better?
```suggestion
- Wait up to 7 seconds for a response:
```

`ldapsearch -D '{{admin_DN}}' -w '{{password}}' -h {{ldap_host}} -b {{base_ou}} '{{memberOf}}={{group1}}' -l 7 {{displayName}}`

> - Query LDAP for all items that DO NOT match filter "{{memberOf}}={{group1}}" and return {{displayName}}:

Reviewer: Perhaps this will read better?
```suggestion
- Invert the filter:
```

`ldapsearch -D '{{admin_DN}}' -w '{{password}}' -h {{ldap_host}} -b {{base_ou}} '(!({{memberOf}}={{group1}}))' {{displayName}}`

> - Query LDAP for all items that match filter "memberOf=group1 AND memberOf=group2 AND memberOf=group3" and return {{displayName}} value for each item:

Reviewer: Perhaps this will read better?
```suggestion
- Return all items that are part of multiple groups, returning the display name for each item:
```

`ldapsearch -D '{{admin_DN}}' -w '{{password}}' -h {{ldap_host}} '(&(memberOf=group1)(memberOf=group2)(memberOf=group3))' "{{displayName}}"`

> - Query LDAP for all items that match filter "memberOf=group1 OR memberOf=group2 OR memberOf=group3" and return {{displayName}} value for each item:

Reviewer: Perhaps this will read better?
```suggestion
- Return all items that are members of at least 1 of the specified groups:
```

`ldapsearch -D '{{admin_DN}}' -w '{{password}}' -h {{ldap_host}} '(|(memberOf=group1)(memberOf=group1)(memberOf=group3))' {{displayName}}`

> - Query LDAP for all items that match filter "memberOf=group1 AND memberOf=group2 AND NOT memberOf=group3" and return {{displayName}} value for each item:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Combine multiple boolean logic filters:
```
